docs/ENDPOINTS.md, before:

# Endpoints

- [1. Table of Routes](#1-table-of-routes)
- [2. Routes by Category](#2-routes-by-category)
  - [2A. Overview](#2a-overview)
  - [2B. `"/edit/*"`](#2b-edit)
    - [2B1. `POST "/edit/editBeacon"`](#2b1-post-editeditbeacon)
    - [2B2. `DELETE "/edit/deleteBeacon"`](#2b2-delete-editdeletebeacon)
    - [2B3. `PUT "/edit/editManager"`](#2b3-put-editeditmanager)
  - [2C. `"/find/*"`](#2c-find)
    - [2C1. `POST "/find/user"`](#2c1-post-finduser)
  - [2X. `"/get/*"`](#2x-get)
    - [2X1. `GET "/get/n"`](#2x1-get-getn)
    - [2X2. `GET "/get/v"`](#2x2-get-getv)
  - [2D. `/write/*`](#2d-write)
    - [2D1. `POST "/write/newBeacon"`](#2d1-post-writenewbeacon)
    - [2D2. `POST "/write/newUser"`](#2d2-post-writenewuser)
  - [2E. `/auth/*`](#2e-auth)
    - [2E1. `POST "/auth/signin/magic-link"`](#2e1-post-authsigninmagic-link)
    - [2E2. `GET "/auth/verify?token={token}"`](#2e2-get-authverifytokentoken)
    - [2E3. `GET "/auth/user"`](#2e3-get-authuser)
    - [2E4. `POST "/auth/signout"`](#2e4-post-authsignout)
  - [2F. `/send/*`](#2f-send)
    - [2F1. `POST "/send/ping"`](#2f1-post-sendping)
- [3. Alex's Notes on Auth](#3-alexs-notes-on-auth)

---

## 1. Table of Routes

| Level | Name    | Meaning                                             |
| ----- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| 0     | Blocked | Cannot start until auth is implemented              |
| 1     | Ghost   | Not started/doesn't exist                           |
| 2     | Shell   | Exists but has no functionality                     |
| 3     | Janky   | Mostly works needs tweaking                         |
| 4     | Murky   | Functioning but response needs work                 |
| 5     | Safe    | All good                                            |
| X     | Zombie  | Works but will be deleted - doesn't respect privacy |

| Status | Method | Endpoint                  | Purpose                             |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 5      | GET    | `/`                       | List all endpoints                  |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 2      | POST   | `/edit/editBeacon`        | Edit an existing Beacon             |
| 1      | PUT    | `/edit/editAction`        | Edit an action                      |
| 2      | DELETE | `/edit/deleteBeacon`      | Delete an existing Beacon           |
| 2      | DELETE | `/edit/deleteAction`      | Delete an existing Action           |
| 1      | PUT    | `/edit/editUser`          | Edit a user                         |
| 2      | POST   | `/edit/editManager`       | Edit a user's manager               |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 4      | POST   | `/find/userBeacons`       | Find all Beacons for a User         |
| X      | GET    | `/find/subject/:subject`  | Get all Beacons for a named Subject |
| X      | GET    | `/find/object/:object`    | Get all Beacons for a named Object  |
| X      | GET    | `/find/verb/:verb`        | Get all Beacons for a named Verb    |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 5      | GET    | `/get/n`                  | Get all nodes of a certain type     |
| X      | GET    | `/get/v`                  | Get all verbs of a certain type     |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 4      | POST   | `/write/newBeacon`        | Create a new Beacon                 |
| 1      | POST   | `/write/createUser`       | Create a new user                   |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 4      | POST   | `/send/ping`              | Send an email to a manager          |
| X      | GET    | `/send/test`              | Send a test email                   |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 1      | POST   | `/auth/signin/magic-link` | Request a magic link                |
| 1      | GET    | `/auth/verify`            | Verify a magic link                 |
| 1      | GET    | `/auth/user`              | Get the current user                |
| 1      | POST   | `/auth/signout`           | Sign out the current user           |

---

## 2. Routes by Category

### 2A. Overview

These are the request formats for the endpoints that either (a) are working or (b) aren't quite working but have a very defined schema. Where I know the response format, I've included it.

Some of these will need to be updated to include the session token.

- [ ] tdWait: Update endpoints to allow receipt of auth token
- [ ] tdMd: Change the assignation of verb from `[ v:${verb.toUpperCase()} ]` to `[v:VERB { name:${verb} }]`
- [ ] tdHi: Add the blocked tasks from Notion to this file

### 2B. `"/edit/*"`

#### 2B1. `POST "/edit/editBeacon"`

```jsonc
  { // Request
    "userId"?: 1, // number (authentication ID)
    "userName"?: "Jason" // string
  }
```

#### 2B2. `DELETE "/edit/deleteBeacon"`

```jsonc
  { // Request
    "userId": 1, // number (authentication ID)
    "beaconId": 1 // number
  }
```

#### 2B3. `PUT "/edit/editManager"`

- [ ] tdWait: Edit the managerEmail on the user node

```jsonc
  { // Request
    "userId": 1, // number (authentication ID)
    "newName"?: "Bill Poopsmith", // string
    "newEmail": "bill@poopsmith.com" // string
  }
```

### 2C. `"/find/*"`

#### 2C1. `POST "/find/user"`

This is the endpoint you should call to get the list of entries to show on the user's screen.

It's a `POST` endpoint because it's designed to take a JSON body.

```jsonc
{ // Request
  "name"?: "Jason", // string
  "id"?: 1, // number
  "publicOnly"?: true // boolean
}
```

##### 2C1A. `publicOnly`

- `publicOnly` is optional and defaults to `true`
- this is because the email builder uses some of the same functions
- I made sure the default option doesn't expose any private statements.

##### 2C1B. `id` and `name`

> By default, this is designed to take an `id` parameter. However, it's got an internal switch that allows it to take a `name` parameter instead.

- If you pass both, or just the `id`...
  - it will use the `id` parameter and call `findUserById(id, publicOnly)`.
- If you only pass the `name`...
  - it will use the `name` parameter and call `findUserByName(name, publicOnly)`.
- If you pass neither...
  - it will return an error.

### 2X. `"/get/*"`

#### 2X1. `GET "/get/n"`

#### 2X2. `GET "/get/v"`

- [ ] tdMd: Retrieve `verb.input` instead of `typeOf(verb)`

### 2D. `/write/*`

#### 2D1. `POST "/write/newBeacon"`

- [ ] tdHi: Correctly assign nested props to `beacon`
- [ ] tdMd: Use `authID` for matching subject node
- [ ] tdMd: Call `breaker(match.atoms)` instead of `breaker(match)` so that they are identical
- [ ] tdLo: Move term extraction from `breaker(match)` to a subfunction
- [ ] tdWait: Return `ember.dbId` to the frontend when creating new statements
- [ ] tdIdea: enforce the noun tag on `match.atoms.subject`

This needs editing - I wrote it a few days ago, and at that point we were going to be passing userId from the client rather than generating it in the server.

Here's the current request format...

```jsonc
  { // Current Request
    "userId": 1, // number
    "userName": "Jason", // string
    "managerName": "Bill Poopsmith", // string
    "managerEmail": "bill@poopsmith.com" // string
  }
  
  { // 200 Response
    "success": true // boolean
  }

  { // 400 Response
    "error": "Missing required parameters"
  }
```

And here's the format I'll need to change it to...

```jsonc
  { // New Request
    "userId": 1, // number
    "managerName"?: "Bill Poopsmith", // string
  }
  
  { // 200 Response
    "success": true // boolean
  }

  { // 400 Response
    "error": "Missing required parameters"
  }
```

I'll also need to incorporate the authentication token into the request.

#### 2D2. `POST "/write/newUser"`

> WIP

### 2E. `/auth/*`

#### 2E1. `POST "/auth/signin/magic-link"`

- [ ] tdWait: Create an endpoint that both signs in and creates a new user
- [ ] tdWait: Create a new user node when a new user signs up
- [ ] tdWait: Assign the managerEmail to the user node on creation

```ts
  reqMagicLink(/* leads to "/" */);

  interface MagicLinkReq {
    email: string
    callbackURL?: string
  }

  function reqMagicLink(request: MagicLinkReq): Promise<MagicLinkRes> {};

  interface MagicLinkRes {
    success: boolean
  }
```

#### 2E2. `GET "/auth/verify?token={token}"`

Request is get with params

```ts
  function verify():Promise<VerifyRes> {};

  interface VerifyRes {
    success: boolean
    user: {
      id: string,
      name?: string,
      email: string,
      manager?: {
        name?: string,
        email?: string,
      } || null
    } || null
  }
```

#### 2E3. `GET "/auth/user"`

- [ ] tdWait: Create a route to get the user details

Request is `GET` with credentials included

```ts
  interface UserRes {
    user: {
      id: string,
      name?: string,
      email: string,
      manager?: {
        name?: string,
        email?: string,
      } || null
    } || null
  }
```

#### 2E4. `POST "/auth/signout"`

- [ ] tdWait: Create a route to sign out the user

Request is `POST` with credentials included

```ts
  interface SignoutRes {
    success: boolean
  }
```

### 2F. `/send/*`

#### 2F1. `POST "/send/ping"`

```ts
function sendPing(/* leads to "/" */): Promise<PingRes> {};
```

---

## 3. Alex's Notes on Auth

When a user logs in or signs up with the magic link flow, here's what happens:

1. Initial Request
   > When the user enters their email address and requests a magic link, they don't receive any userId or token directly in the app.
   > Instead, a one-time token is generated on the backend and sent to their email.
2. After Clicking the Link
   > When the user clicks the magic link in their email, the token is verified by the backend.
   > Upon successful verification, the backend responds with:
      - A userId (which remains consistent for that email address)
      - Some form of session information (could be a JWT token, cookies, etc.)
3. What the Frontend Gets
   > The frontend receives this userId and session information.
      - The session information (token) is what maintains the authenticated state for subsequent API calls
      - The userId is what you'd use to identify the user in your Neo4j database.

So to directly answer your question: You get both. The userId for identifying the user in your database, and a session token for maintaining the authenticated state. The userId should be consistent across logins for the same email, while the session token will be different for each login session.

Commit message:

feat: :safety_vest: enforce unique `[:VERB { beaconId }]` & `(:User { userId })`

docs/ENDPOINTS.md, after:

# Endpoints

- [1. Table of Routes](#1-table-of-routes)
- [2. Routes by Category](#2-routes-by-category)
  - [2A. Overview](#2a-overview)
  - [2B. `"/edit/*"`](#2b-edit)
    - [2B1. `POST "/edit/editBeacon"`](#2b1-post-editeditbeacon)
    - [2B2. `DELETE "/edit/deleteBeacon"`](#2b2-delete-editdeletebeacon)
    - [2B3. `PUT "/edit/editManager"`](#2b3-put-editeditmanager)
  - [2C. `"/find/*"`](#2c-find)
    - [2C1. `POST "/find/user"`](#2c1-post-finduser)
  - [2X. `"/get/*"`](#2x-get)
    - [2X1. `GET "/get/n"`](#2x1-get-getn)
    - [2X2. `GET "/get/v"`](#2x2-get-getv)
  - [2D. `/write/*`](#2d-write)
    - [2D1. `POST "/write/newBeacon"`](#2d1-post-writenewbeacon)
    - [2D2. `POST "/write/newUser"`](#2d2-post-writenewuser)
  - [2E. `/auth/*`](#2e-auth)
    - [2E1. `POST "/auth/signin/magic-link"`](#2e1-post-authsigninmagic-link)
    - [2E2. `GET "/auth/verify?token={token}"`](#2e2-get-authverifytokentoken)
    - [2E3. `GET "/auth/user"`](#2e3-get-authuser)
    - [2E4. `POST "/auth/signout"`](#2e4-post-authsignout)
  - [2F. `/send/*`](#2f-send)
    - [2F1. `POST "/send/ping"`](#2f1-post-sendping)
- [3. Alex's Notes on Auth](#3-alexs-notes-on-auth)

---

## 1. Table of Routes

| Level | Name    | Meaning                                             |
| ----- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| 0     | Blocked | Cannot start until auth is implemented              |
| 1     | Ghost   | Not started/doesn't exist                           |
| 2     | Shell   | Exists but has no functionality                     |
| 3     | Janky   | Mostly works needs tweaking                         |
| 4     | Murky   | Functioning but response needs work                 |
| 5     | Safe    | All good                                            |
| X     | Zombie  | Works but will be deleted - doesn't respect privacy |

| Status | Method | Endpoint                  | Purpose                             |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 5      | GET    | `/`                       | List all endpoints                  |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 2      | POST   | `/edit/editBeacon`        | Edit an existing Beacon             |
| 1      | PUT    | `/edit/editAction`        | Edit an action                      |
| 2      | DELETE | `/edit/deleteBeacon`      | Delete an existing Beacon           |
| 2      | DELETE | `/edit/deleteAction`      | Delete an existing Action           |
| 1      | PUT    | `/edit/editUser`          | Edit a user                         |
| 2      | POST   | `/edit/editManager`       | Edit a user's manager               |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 4      | POST   | `/find/userBeacons`       | Find all Beacons for a User         |
| X      | GET    | `/find/subject/:subject`  | Get all Beacons for a named Subject |
| X      | GET    | `/find/object/:object`    | Get all Beacons for a named Object  |
| X      | GET    | `/find/verb/:verb`        | Get all Beacons for a named Verb    |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 5      | GET    | `/get/n`                  | Get all nodes of a certain type     |
| X      | GET    | `/get/v`                  | Get all verbs of a certain type     |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 4      | POST   | `/write/newBeacon`        | Create a new Beacon                 |
| 1      | POST   | `/write/createUser`       | Create a new user                   |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 4      | POST   | `/send/ping`              | Send an email to a manager          |
| X      | GET    | `/send/test`              | Send a test email                   |
| ------ | ------ | ------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 1      | POST   | `/auth/signin/magic-link` | Request a magic link                |
| 1      | GET    | `/auth/verify`            | Verify a magic link                 |
| 1      | GET    | `/auth/user`              | Get the current user                |
| 1      | POST   | `/auth/signout`           | Sign out the current user           |

---

## 2. Routes by Category

### 2A. Overview

These are the request formats for the endpoints that either (a) are working or (b) aren't quite working but have a very defined schema. Where I know the response format, I've included it.

Some of these will need to be updated to include the session token.

- [ ] tdHi: Add the blocked tasks from Notion to this file
- [x] tdMd: Change the assignation of verb from `[ v:${verb.toUpperCase()} ]` to `[v:VERB { name:${verb} }]`
- [ ] tdHi: Update endpoints to allow receipt of auth token
- [ ] tdCheck: What's the type of driver??

### 2B. `"/edit/*"`

#### 2B1. `POST "/edit/editBeacon"`

```jsonc
  { // Request
    "userId"?: 1, // number (authentication ID)
    "userName"?: "Jason" // string
  }
```

#### 2B2. `DELETE "/edit/deleteBeacon"`

```jsonc
  { // Request
    "userId": 1, // number (authentication ID)
    "beaconId": 1 // number
  }
```

#### 2B3. `PUT "/edit/editManager"`

- [ ] tdWait: Edit the managerEmail on the user node

```jsonc
  { // Request
    "userId": 1, // number (authentication ID)
    "newName"?: "Bill Poopsmith", // string
    "newEmail": "bill@poopsmith.com" // string
  }
```

### 2C. `"/find/*"`

#### 2C1. `POST "/find/user"`

This is the endpoint you should call to get the list of entries to show on the user's screen.

It's a `POST` endpoint because it's designed to take a JSON body.

```jsonc
{ // Request
  "name"?: "Jason", // string
  "id"?: 1, // number
  "publicOnly"?: true // boolean
}
```

##### 2C1A. `publicOnly`

- `publicOnly` is optional and defaults to `true`
- this is because the email builder uses some of the same functions
- I made sure the default option doesn't expose any private statements.

##### 2C1B. `id` and `name`

> By default, this is designed to take an `id` parameter. However, it's got an internal switch that allows it to take a `name` parameter instead.

- If you pass both, or just the `id`...
  - it will use the `id` parameter and call `findUserById(id, publicOnly)`.
- If you only pass the `name`...
  - it will use the `name` parameter and call `findUserByName(name, publicOnly)`.
- If you pass neither...
  - it will return an error.

### 2X. `"/get/*"`

#### 2X1. `GET "/get/n"`

#### 2X2. `GET "/get/v"`

- [ ] tdMd: Retrieve `verb.input` instead of `typeOf(verb)`

### 2D. `/write/*`

#### 2D1. `POST "/write/newBeacon"`

- [ ] tdHi: Correctly assign nested props to `beacon`
- [ ] tdWait: Use `authID` for matching subject node
- [ ] tdIdea: Call `breaker(match.atoms)` instead of `breaker(match)` so that they are identical
- [ ] tdLo: Move term extraction from `breaker(match)` to a subfunction
- [ ] tdHi: Create a unique `dbId` prop when creating a node
- [ ] tdWait: Return `ember.dbId` to the frontend when creating new statements
- [ ] tdWait: Create a unique `dbId` prop `ember.dbId` to the frontend when creating new statements
- [ ] tdIdea: enforce the noun tag on `match.atoms.subject`

This needs editing - I wrote it a few days ago, and at that point we were going to be passing userId from the client rather than generating it in the server.

Here's the current request format...

```jsonc
  { // Current Request
    "userId": 1, // number
    "userName": "Jason", // string
    "managerName": "Bill Poopsmith", // string
    "managerEmail": "bill@poopsmith.com" // string
  }
  
  { // 200 Response
    "success": true // boolean
  }

  { // 400 Response
    "error": "Missing required parameters"
  }
```

And here's the format I'll need to change it to...

```jsonc
  { // New Request
    "userId": 1, // number
    "managerName"?: "Bill Poopsmith", // string
  }
  
  { // 200 Response
    "success": true // boolean
  }

  { // 400 Response
    "error": "Missing required parameters"
  }
```

I'll also need to incorporate the authentication token into the request.

#### 2D2. `POST "/write/newUser"`

> WIP

### 2E. `/auth/*`

#### 2E1. `POST "/auth/signin/magic-link"`

- [ ] tdWait: Create an endpoint that both signs in and creates a new user
- [ ] tdWait: Create a new user node when a new user signs up
- [ ] tdWait: Assign the managerEmail to the user node on creation

```ts
  reqMagicLink(/* leads to "/" */);

  interface MagicLinkReq {
    email: string
    callbackURL?: string
  }

  function reqMagicLink(request: MagicLinkReq): Promise<MagicLinkRes> {};

  interface MagicLinkRes {
    success: boolean
  }
```

#### 2E2. `GET "/auth/verify?token={token}"`

Request is get with params

```ts
  function verify():Promise<VerifyRes> {};

  interface VerifyRes {
    success: boolean
    user: {
      id: string,
      name?: string,
      email: string,
      manager?: {
        name?: string,
        email?: string,
      } || null
    } || null
  }
```

#### 2E3. `GET "/auth/user"`

- [ ] tdWait: Create a route to get the user details

Request is `GET` with credentials included

```ts
  interface UserRes {
    user: {
      id: string,
      name?: string,
      email: string,
      manager?: {
        name?: string,
        email?: string,
      } || null
    } || null
  }
```

#### 2E4. `POST "/auth/signout"`

- [ ] tdWait: Create a route to sign out the user

Request is `POST` with credentials included

```ts
  interface SignoutRes {
    success: boolean
  }
```

### 2F. `/send/*`

#### 2F1. `POST "/send/ping"`

- [ ] tdHi: Pull the manager's email from the user node

```ts
function sendPing(/* leads to "/" */): Promise<PingRes> {};
```

---

## 3. Alex's Notes on Auth

When a user logs in or signs up with the magic link flow, here's what happens:

1. Initial Request
   > When the user enters their email address and requests a magic link, they don't receive any userId or token directly in the app.
   > Instead, a one-time token is generated on the backend and sent to their email.
2. After Clicking the Link
   > When the user clicks the magic link in their email, the token is verified by the backend.
   > Upon successful verification, the backend responds with:
      - A userId (which remains consistent for that email address)
      - Some form of session information (could be a JWT token, cookies, etc.)
3. What the Frontend Gets
   > The frontend receives this userId and session information.
      - The session information (token) is what maintains the authenticated state for subsequent API calls
      - The userId is what you'd use to identify the user in your Neo4j database.

So to directly answer your question: You get both. The userId for identifying the user in your database, and a session token for maintaining the authenticated state. The userId should be consistent across logins for the same email, while the session token will be different for each login session.
